so parents will sometimes ask us how
they would tell if their child had an
eating disorder some of the things will
tell people to look for are especially
changes in your child and especially
around food or eating or activity so
things that you might be aware of would
be a sudden interest in dieting or
healthy eating or considering being a
vegan or a vegetarian beginning to cut
out different food groups or beginning
to diet and be more restrictive and
extreme with what they're doing it's
something that seems to come out of the
blue and often it comes on fairly
intensely if you're seeing your child
eating less and less with the family
they might be telling you that they're
eating at a friend's house or they're
eating out with friends when they're out
at an event and you begin to realize
that you're really not seeing them
eating meals or snacks and it may be a
series of excuses of not eating they may
become more irritable they may you may
start to find that you're having more
conflict with them or arguing more they
often can become just more irritable in
general it could be something like quick
mood shifts that occur so they seem fine
and all of a sudden a comment is made
and they're very upset and it comes
feels like it comes out of nowhere or it
may be that just in general they become
more and more irritable when we're not
getting enough food then our brains tend
to be a little more agitated and it
makes it more difficult for them to
engage in the way that you're used to
having them engage so any things you may
want to pay attention to our different
behaviors your child may be having from
what you've noticed is normal one might
be their dress sometimes as people are
losing weight and wanting to hide that
they will change how they're dressing
and they may wear more bag
clothes more heavy clothes things that
hide their body and make it less obvious
to other people this is a big paradox
into the sense that they are typically
feeling fat but at some level recognize
that their body is is changing and is
different in that if that is known to
other people people may begin to
interrupt their ability to have an
eating disorder
additionally exercise is another thing
that you may look at in terms of their
behavior either a sudden and intense
onset of exercise that they've never
really done before or been interested in
maybe as a part of that concept of
healthy living or that kind of thing or
exercise it seems to be getting more
intense or more driven feel like they
have to do it they may be thinking about
needing to get it in every day or
wanting to do it after they've eaten as
to keep themselves from feeling like the
calories are going to to count in terms
of their weight so they may start doing
things like avoiding going out with
their friends or not going to events
because they feel like they haven't
gotten their exercise in or it
interferes with getting their exercise
in potentially they become less social
with their friends you see that they're
not going out as much especially if
their friends do a lot of things
centered around food and they may be
staying home or they may be less
involved with people you may find that
they really start to focus more and more
on their homework it's possible it's
taking them longer to do their homework
because as food intake decreases often
concentration gets impaired so they may
be needing to pull in some from the
activities that they're doing because
they need more time
to do their schoolwork to do well at it
and typically for kids who are on the
side of restricting calories more with
anorexia nervosa they often tend to be
more perfectionistic and wanting to be
sure that they're keeping good grades
and doing that in in order to do that
they may need to back up some from the
act
tivities and engage more in the school
work other behaviors that you may see in
your child are that they beget they're
more cold than most other people that
are in the room they are having
difficulty with blood flow if they're
not eating enough and so they are more
likely to be cold than other individuals
around them other things you might
notice are a lot of talk about food and
exercise a lot of talking about it and
perhaps even complaining about being fat
when it's really clear that they are not
so mostly I've been talking about things
that are more related to individuals
restricting their food intake and that's
one form of eating disorder that we
would look at along the lines of
anorexia nervosa on the other side of
things is that sometimes people are
engaging in binging and encouraging
activities so paying attention to other
things that might be happening if you're
concerned that your child might be
binging pay attention to whether large
amounts of food seem to be missing from
the refrigerator unexplained food
missing that you can't really identify
that people are eating it but somehow a
bag of cookies is gone so paying
attention to how food may be changing in
the pantry or it seems to be missing
would be one way to pay attention to
that also in terms of children deciding
to try to get rid of that food one of
the most common ways they do that is
through vomiting and so you may need to
pay attention to whether you're seeing
vomit in a toilet or you're seeing
remnants or smelling that in places
people that are really trying to hide
their vomiting may not just vomit in the
bathroom they may try to vomit in a
trash can or in things that they can put
into a bag and carry out or remove from
the house so you may pay attention to
whether you feel like things are
disrupted in those kinds of ways it's
important to recognize that in in
isolation each of these things is not
necessarily an eating disorder you're
more looking for a pattern a trend
something you've seen over
a change that's pretty significantly
different than what you've seen your
child doing or again a change that has
been slow in developing and feels like
it's gaining momentum or is getting
somewhat out of control for more
information on eating disorders please
visit you of M Health org